src/components/Text/docs/Text.storybook.mdx, before:

import { Primary, Stories, ArgTypes, Meta } from '@storybook/blocks';

import { StyledSystemLinks } from '../../../docs/StyledSystemLinks';
import * as TextStories from './Text.stories';

<Meta of={TextStories} />

# Text

The Text component is a wrapper component that will apply typography styles to the text inside.

-   Use different headlines and copies to structure your content hierarchically
-   Avoid using sizes outside the given range
-   Text default size is medium

<Primary />

## Usage

By default, `Text` uses the primary color, which is the color for most interface text, whether body or headlines.

Use the `secondary` color for supplemental information with diminished contrast (often, the “gray text”).
Like form microcopy, captions, helper text, and other medium emphasized text elements.

Use the `disabled` color for text in blocks, form elements, or other components that are not available
to a user at the moment (due to either permissions, dependencies, or pre-requisites) and
need to feature “incidental” states.

## Properties

<ArgTypes of={TextStories} />

<StyledSystemLinks
    component="Text"
    supportedProps={['margin', 'fontSize', 'fontWeight', 'fontFamily', 'textAlign']}
    mt={2}
/>

<Stories includePrimary={false} />

Commit message:

feat(text): change default color to "inherit"
BREAKING CHANGE
Text component will inherit the color from the surrounding context by default. In most of the cases it will be the primary color.

New `primary` prop is added to enforce the primary text color

src/components/Text/docs/Text.storybook.mdx, after:

import { Primary, Stories, ArgTypes, Meta } from '@storybook/blocks';

import { StyledSystemLinks } from '../../../docs/StyledSystemLinks';
import * as TextStories from './Text.stories';

<Meta of={TextStories} />

# Text

The Text component is a wrapper component that will apply typography styles to the text inside.

-   Use different headlines and copies to structure your content hierarchically
-   Avoid using sizes outside the given range
-   Text default size is medium

<Primary />

## Usage

By default, `Text` uses the color of the container, which is the primary color in most of the cases.
This approach allows the component to adapt to the container needs. Use the `primary` property in order to force the primary color of the theme.

Use the `secondary` color for supplemental information with diminished contrast (often, the “gray text”).
Like form microcopy, captions, helper text, and other medium emphasized text elements.

Use the `disabled` color for text in blocks, form elements, or other components that are not available
to a user at the moment (due to either permissions, dependencies, or pre-requisites) and
need to feature “incidental” states.

## Properties

<ArgTypes of={TextStories} />

<StyledSystemLinks
    component="Text"
    supportedProps={['margin', 'fontSize', 'fontWeight', 'fontFamily', 'textAlign']}
    mt={2}
/>

<Stories includePrimary={false} />
