README.md, before:

# @freenow/wave
<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-BADGE:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
[![All Contributors](https://img.shields.io/badge/all_contributors-1-orange.svg?style=flat-square)](#contributors-)
<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-BADGE:END -->

## Documentation

Our documentation site lives at [https://wave.free-now.com/](https://wave.free-now.com/). You'll be able to find detailed documentation on getting started, all of the components, our theme, our principles, and more.

## Installation

```sh
npm install @freenow/wave
```

or

```sh
yarn add @freenow/wave
```

## Contributors ✨

Thanks goes to these wonderful people ([emoji key](https://allcontributors.org/docs/en/emoji-key)):

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
<table>
  <tr>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://bitbucket.org/Lopinopulos"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1469636?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>Nikolai Lopin</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/freenowtech/wave/commits?author=nlopin" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/freenowtech/wave/commits?author=nlopin" title="Documentation">📖</a> <a href="https://github.com/freenowtech/wave/issues?q=author%3Anlopin" title="Bug reports">🐛</a> <a href="https://github.com/freenowtech/wave/pulls?q=is%3Apr+reviewed-by%3Anlopin" title="Reviewed Pull Requests">👀</a></td>
  </tr>
</table>

<!-- markdownlint-restore -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->

This project follows the [all-contributors](https://github.com/all-contributors/all-contributors) specification. Contributions of any kind welcome!

Commit message:

Update README with information for contributions (#35)
* docs(readme): update with more information on how to contribute on Github

* docs(CONTRIBUTING): update to have official doc reference and fix typos

README.md, after:

# @freenow/wave
<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-BADGE:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
[![All Contributors](https://img.shields.io/badge/all_contributors-1-orange.svg?style=flat-square)](#contributors-)
<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-BADGE:END -->

## Documentation

Our documentation site lives at [https://wave.free-now.com/](https://wave.free-now.com/). You'll be able to find detailed documentation on getting started, all of the components, our theme, our principles, and more.

## Installation

```sh
npm install @freenow/wave
```

or

```sh
yarn add @freenow/wave
```

## Contributing

Thanks for being willing to contribute! Please read the [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) doc

## Contributors ✨

Thanks goes to these wonderful people ([emoji key](https://allcontributors.org/docs/en/emoji-key)):

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
<table>
  <tr>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://bitbucket.org/Lopinopulos"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1469636?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>Nikolai Lopin</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/freenowtech/wave/commits?author=nlopin" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/freenowtech/wave/commits?author=nlopin" title="Documentation">📖</a> <a href="https://github.com/freenowtech/wave/issues?q=author%3Anlopin" title="Bug reports">🐛</a> <a href="https://github.com/freenowtech/wave/pulls?q=is%3Apr+reviewed-by%3Anlopin" title="Reviewed Pull Requests">👀</a></td>
  </tr>
</table>

<!-- markdownlint-restore -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->

This project follows the [all-contributors](https://github.com/all-contributors/all-contributors) specification. Contributions of any kind welcome!
