src/components/InfoBanner/docs/InfoBanner.mdx, before:

---
name: InfoBanner
menu: Components
route: /components/info-banner
---

import { Playground } from 'docz';
import { InfoBanner } from '../InfoBanner'
import { InfoBannerCard } from '../blocks/InfoBannerCard'
import { InfoBannerPropsTable } from './InfoBannerPropsTable'
import { Combination } from '../../../docs/Combination'
import { StyledSystemLinks } from '../../../docs/StyledSystemLinks'

# InfoBanner

The InfoBanner is used to communicate a vibrant message, state change or important contextual information that affects the system, feature, running process or the whole page. It also can contain related optional actions in the form of a link.

## Properties

<InfoBannerPropsTable />
<br />
<StyledSystemLinks component='InfoBanner' supportedProps={ ['space', 'layout', 'position', 'color', 'flexbox', 'grid-layout', 'background'] }/>


## Examples
<InfoBanner mt={2} title='Please do not share details about this information.' description='In case of uncertainty please contact Fraud department.' />
<br />
<InfoBanner title='Possible Fraud' description='This passenger has more than 20 linked accounts.' variant='warning' />

<br/>

## Compound components approach

You may also use compound components approach to build up your InfoBanner (e.g. when you need multiple links in a single banner as below)

Available compound components:
- **InfoBannerCard** (Wrapper)
- **InfoBannerCard.Title**
- **InfoBannerCard.Description**
- **InfoBannerCard.Link**

The wrapper component (**InfoBannerCard**) accepts same props as **InfoBanner** component, if variant is applied, it's styling will get automatically applied to children compound components.

<Playground>
    <InfoBannerCard variant='warning'>
        <InfoBannerCard.Title>Issue with documents</InfoBannerCard.Title>
        <InfoBannerCard.Description>Your uploaded documents don't match the records. Please check the following sources:</InfoBannerCard.Description>
            <InfoBannerCard.Link linkText='Driver documents' linkUrl='https://wave.free-now.com' />
            <InfoBannerCard.Link linkText='Vehicle documents' linkUrl='https://wave.free-now.com' />
            <InfoBannerCard.Link linkText='Driver Profile' linkUrl='https://wave.free-now.com' />
    </InfoBannerCard>
</Playground>

## Playground

<Playground>
    <InfoBanner title='Title' description='Description' linkUrl='https://wave.free-now.com/components/info-banner' linkText='Link' />
</Playground>

## Combinations

<Combination variant={['info', 'success', 'warning', 'error']} emphasized={[false, true]} linkText={['Link', '']} >
    {(props, i) => <InfoBanner key={i} title='Title' description='Description' linkUrl='https://wave.free-now.com/components/info-banner' {...props} />}
</Combination>

Commit message:

chore: export InfoBanner blocks separately from the main package

src/components/InfoBanner/docs/InfoBanner.mdx, after:

---
name: InfoBanner
menu: Components
route: /components/info-banner
---

import { Playground } from 'docz';
import { InfoBanner } from '../InfoBanner'
import { InfoBannerCard } from '../blocks/InfoBannerCard'
import { InfoBannerPropsTable } from './InfoBannerPropsTable'
import { Combination } from '../../../docs/Combination'
import { StyledSystemLinks } from '../../../docs/StyledSystemLinks'

# InfoBanner

The InfoBanner is used to communicate a vibrant message, state change or important contextual information that affects the system, feature, running process or the whole page. It also can contain related optional actions in the form of a link.

## Properties

<InfoBannerPropsTable />
<br />
<StyledSystemLinks component='InfoBanner' supportedProps={ ['space', 'layout', 'position', 'color', 'flexbox', 'grid-layout', 'background'] }/>


## Examples
<InfoBanner mt={2} title='Please do not share details about this information.' description='In case of uncertainty please contact Fraud department.' />
<br />
<InfoBanner title='Possible Fraud' description='This passenger has more than 20 linked accounts.' variant='warning' />

<br/>

## Compound components approach

You may also use compound components approach to build up your InfoBanner (e.g. when you need multiple links in a single banner as below).
The compound components are available via `@freenow/wave/components/InfoBanner/blocks` import.

Available compound components:
- **InfoBannerCard** (Wrapper)
- **InfoBannerCard.Title**
- **InfoBannerCard.Description**
- **InfoBannerCard.Link**

The wrapper component (**InfoBannerCard**) accepts same props as **InfoBanner** component, if variant is applied, it's styling will get automatically applied to children compound components.

<Playground>
    <InfoBannerCard variant='warning'>
        <InfoBannerCard.Title>Issue with documents</InfoBannerCard.Title>
        <InfoBannerCard.Description>Your uploaded documents don't match the records. Please check the following sources:</InfoBannerCard.Description>
            <InfoBannerCard.Link linkText='Driver documents' linkUrl='https://wave.free-now.com' />
            <InfoBannerCard.Link linkText='Vehicle documents' linkUrl='https://wave.free-now.com' />
            <InfoBannerCard.Link linkText='Driver Profile' linkUrl='https://wave.free-now.com' />
    </InfoBannerCard>
</Playground>

## Playground

<Playground>
    <InfoBanner title='Title' description='Description' linkUrl='https://wave.free-now.com/components/info-banner' linkText='Link' />
</Playground>

## Combinations

<Combination variant={['info', 'success', 'warning', 'error']} emphasized={[false, true]} linkText={['Link', '']} >
    {(props, i) => <InfoBanner key={i} title='Title' description='Description' linkUrl='https://wave.free-now.com/components/info-banner' {...props} />}
</Combination>
