docs/get-started.storybook.mdx, before:

import { Meta } from '@storybook/blocks';
import WaveLogo from './assets/wave-ds-logo.svg';
import ByFreenow from './assets/by-freenow.svg';

import { Box } from '../src/components/Box/Box';
import { Card } from '../src/components/Card/Card';
import { Headline } from '../src/components/Headline/Headline';
import { Text } from '../src/components/Text/Text';

<Meta title="Get Started" />

<Box className="sb-unstyled" display="flex">
    <svg width="170px">
        <use href={`${WaveLogo}#logo`} />
    </svg>
    <img src={ByFreenow} width="170px" alt="by-freenow-logo" />
</Box>

Welcome to the Design System of FREE NOW. Thanks for stopping by! This is the place where you find the latest components and essentials, that enable you to rapidly build your product.

## Installation

To bring the design system into your project, install it as a package:

```bash
npm i @freenow/wave
```

## Usage

All of our components are exported by name from `@freenow/wave`, so you can import them with:

```jsx
import { Card, Headline, Text } from '@freenow/wave';

export default () => (
    <Card level={200}>
        <Headline>Welcome</Headline>
        <Text>FREE NOW Design System</Text>
    </Card>
);
```

You'll see this:

<Card level={200}>
    <Headline>Welcome</Headline>
    <Text>FREE NOW Design System</Text>
</Card>

## Considerations

<br />

### Usage with styled-components v6

Wave will work with versions of `styled-components` higher than `4.3`, but in case you are using version `6` or above you may see warnings similar to `Warning: React does not recognize the {x} prop on a DOM element...`.
The warnings appear because starting from v6 [`styled-components` does NOT automatically filter props anymore](https://styled-components.com/releases#v6.0.0), which results in props that are meant only for React components reaching the actual DOM.
To get rid of these warning you can wrap your app with `StyleSheetManager` and pass a `shouldForwardProp` function like:

```tsx
import isPropValid from '@emotion/is-prop-valid';
import { StyleSheetManager } from 'styled-components';

const shouldForwardProp = (propName, target) => {
    if (typeof target === 'string') {
        // For HTML elements, forward the prop if it is a valid HTML attribute
        return isPropValid(propName);
    }
    // For other elements, forward all props
    return true;
};

const Root = () => (
    <StyleSheetManager shouldForwardProp={shouldForwardProp}>
        <App />
    </StyleSheetManager>
);
```

For more information check out [this section in the styled-components docs about the change](https://styled-components.com/docs/faqs#shouldforwardprop-is-no-longer-provided-by-default).

Commit message:

docs: mention @emotion/is-prop-valid in prop filtering docs

docs/get-started.storybook.mdx, after:

import { Meta } from '@storybook/blocks';
import WaveLogo from './assets/wave-ds-logo.svg';
import ByFreenow from './assets/by-freenow.svg';

import { Box } from '../src/components/Box/Box';
import { Card } from '../src/components/Card/Card';
import { Headline } from '../src/components/Headline/Headline';
import { Text } from '../src/components/Text/Text';

<Meta title="Get Started" />

<Box className="sb-unstyled" display="flex">
    <svg width="170px">
        <use href={`${WaveLogo}#logo`} />
    </svg>
    <img src={ByFreenow} width="170px" alt="by-freenow-logo" />
</Box>

Welcome to the Design System of FREE NOW. Thanks for stopping by! This is the place where you find the latest components and essentials, that enable you to rapidly build your product.

## Installation

To bring the design system into your project, install it as a package:

```bash
npm i @freenow/wave
```

## Usage

All of our components are exported by name from `@freenow/wave`, so you can import them with:

```jsx
import { Card, Headline, Text } from '@freenow/wave';

export default () => (
    <Card level={200}>
        <Headline>Welcome</Headline>
        <Text>FREE NOW Design System</Text>
    </Card>
);
```

You'll see this:

<Card level={200}>
    <Headline>Welcome</Headline>
    <Text>FREE NOW Design System</Text>
</Card>

## Considerations

<br />

### Usage with styled-components v6

Wave will work with versions of `styled-components` higher than `4.3`, but in case you are using version `6` or above you may see warnings similar to `Warning: React does not recognize the {x} prop on a DOM element...`.
The warnings appear because starting from v6 [`styled-components` does NOT automatically filter props anymore](https://styled-components.com/releases#v6.0.0), which results in props that are meant only for React components reaching the actual DOM.
To get rid of these warning you can wrap your app with `StyleSheetManager` and pass a `shouldForwardProp` function like:

```tsx
import isPropValid from '@emotion/is-prop-valid';
import { StyleSheetManager } from 'styled-components';

const shouldForwardProp = (propName, target) => {
    if (typeof target === 'string') {
        // For HTML elements, forward the prop if it is a valid HTML attribute
        return isPropValid(propName);
    }
    // For other elements, forward all props
    return true;
};

const Root = () => (
    <StyleSheetManager shouldForwardProp={shouldForwardProp}>
        <App />
    </StyleSheetManager>
);
```

For the actual filtering function we recommend using the [@emotion/is-prop-valid](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@emotion/is-prop-valid) package to have a plug-and-play solution.
For more information check out [this section in the styled-components docs about the change](https://styled-components.com/docs/faqs#shouldforwardprop-is-no-longer-provided-by-default).
