docs/migrating.storybook.mdx, before:

import { Meta } from '@storybook/blocks';

import { PlacementMappingsTable } from './components/migration/PlacementMappingsTable';
import { InvertedPropMigrationTable } from './components/migration/InvertedPropMigrationTable';
import { IconMappingsTable } from './components/migration/IconMappingsTable';
import { CssVariablesMigrationTable } from './components/migration/CssVariablesMigrationTable';

<Meta title="Migration to v2" />

# From v1 to v2

Prerequisites:

-   your project must use React@18;
-   React is mounted to the DOM using the [new `createRoot` API](https://react.dev/blog/2022/03/08/react-18-upgrade-guide#updates-to-client-rendering-apis).

## 1️⃣ Connect Classic colors

Version 2 provides two [color themes](?path=/docs/essentials-colors--docs) of the UI.
Start migrating to the classic color theme no matter which primary colors your UI must have.

Connect classic colors by rendering `ClassicColors` component as close as possible to the application's root, where React is mounted to the DOM.
The component injects CSS color variables used in the design system.

```tsx
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom/client';
import App from './App.tsx';
import { ClassicColors } from '@freenow/wave'; // blue primary color

ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root')!).render(
    <React.StrictMode>
        <ClassicColors />
        <App />
    </React.StrictMode>
);
```

## 2️⃣ Run codemods

Codemods automatically modify your code to match the new APIs. They aren't perfect, but they reduce the amount of repetitive work by a lot.

Run all codemods at once against all the files in the `src` folder:

npm

```bash
npx @freenow/wave run_v2_migration src/**/*
```

Yarn

```bash
yarn exec node_modules/.bin/run_v2_migration src/**/*
```

This command also accepts [jscodeshift's CLI options](https://github.com/facebook/jscodeshift?tab=readme-ov-file#usage-cli). If you prefer to run codemods one by one, you'll find individual commands in the [Breaking Changes section](#breaking-changes).

## 3️⃣ Verify it works

Run your application. You should see all the elements displayed and colored the same as in v1.

Run the following command in the devtool's console to verify everything works well:

```js
getComputedStyle(document.documentElement).getPropertyValue('--wave-b-color-black')
    ? console.log('%c🌊 Wave 2.0 is here', 'color: green;font-size: 1.2rem;')
    : console.log('%c🔴 Something is wrong, let us know at #ask-wave', 'color:red;font-size: 1.2rem;');
```

Other ways to verify the migration is done:

-   you will see the `--wave` CSS variables in dev tools;
-   if your OS switches between light and dark schemes, the UI will switch to the dark scheme too (you can enforce it in dev tools);

In case it doesn't work, reach out to the #ask-wave Slack channel for help.

## 4️⃣ Enforce light scheme

Wave v2 comes with automatic dark scheme enabled by default. That means the color of the UI will reflect the OS color preferences of the user.

Most likely, your app will need adjustments to make the dark scheme readable.
Consider adding a task to your backlog, and disable the dark scheme by wrapping your application root with the `LightScheme` until you are ready:

```tsx
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom/client';
import App from './App.tsx';
import { ClassicColors, LightScheme } from '@freenow/wave'; // blue primary color

ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root')!).render(
    <React.StrictMode>
        <ClassicColors />
        <LightScheme>
            <App />
        </LightScheme>
    </React.StrictMode>
);
```

## 5️⃣ Polish the code

Codemods leave several artifacts that require manual processing. Your code will work fine without polishing, but it will be repetitive.

### Migrate to semantic CSS variables

Find all `--wave-b-color` usages. Those are CSS variables pointing to theme colors, like `Color` object we had before.
The better way to work with colors is to use _semantic CSS variables_, they start with `--wave-s-color`.
Consider the role the color fulfils in your use case, and pick the matching variable from several semantic groups:

-   _foreground_ for texts and icons;
-   _background_ for background of elements and surfaces;
-   _border_;
-   _shadow_.

The list of semantic variables is available at [the colors page](?path=/docs/essentials-colors--docs),
but we recommend using a typed `getSemanticValue` helper instead of hard-coding variable names (they are long).

<CssVariablesMigrationTable />

After you are done, replace all mentions of `ReadCssColorVariable | (string & {})` in your code with `ReadCssColorVariable`.

### Set the default page background to Wave's

Wave has several CSS variables for page background color because of the dark/light schemes.
We automatically set the background color to the `body`, but you probably have it set too.
If so, delete your manual page background setting or set it to `getSemanticValue('background-page-default')`.

### Clean `inverted` props migration

If you used `inverted` prop extensively, you will see that each component is now wrapped into `<InvertedColorScheme>` component.
This is not required, you can wrap multiple components at once and avoid duplication (`InvertedColorScheme` is `Box` with a special class name):

<InvertedPropMigrationTable />

### Review `ref` usages

We changed the place where the `ref` is attached to the form components `Input` and `Password`.
If you use `ref` to reach underlying DOM elements, you no longer need to look for `input` element. Use `ref.current` directly.

## 6️⃣ Switch to new colors (if required)

Now you can easily switch to the `ModernColors` theme if your project requires rebranding:

```tsx
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom/client';
import App from './App.tsx';
import { ModernColors } from '@freenow/wave'; // blue primary color

ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root')!).render(
    <React.StrictMode>
        <ModernColors />
        <App />
    </React.StrictMode>
);
```

## Breaking Changes

### `Colors` and `SemanticColors` objects are removed

Version 2 does not export `Colors` and `SemanticColors` anymore. All the colors are now accessible via CSS custom properties (aka CSS variables).

It is recommended to use semantic CSS variables at all time (see the list of variables on the [colors page](?path=/docs/essentials-colors--docs)).
Wave exports a convenient helper with variables autocompletion.

Old approach (v1):

```tsx
import { Colors } from '@freenow/wave';

export const GreyList = styled.ul`
    color: ${Colors.AUTHENTIC_BLUE_550};
`;
```

New approach (v2):

```tsx
import { getSemanticValue } from '@freenow/wave';

export const GreyList = styled.ul`
    color: ${getSemanticValue('foreground-primary')};
`;
```

Codemode migrates the colors automatically:

```bash
npx jscodeshift --parser=tsx --extension=js,jsx,ts,tsx -t node_modules/@freenow/wave/lib/cjs/codemods/colors-to-css-vars.js path/to/src
```

Disclaimer: This codemod transforms usages of `Colors` to our bare colors CSS variables to ensure we don't introduce breaking changes, that being said,
we recommend using semantic tokens instead as a best practice and offer a `getSemanticValue` API for just that.

### `inverted` prop is removed

With the introduction of our new dark scheme in Wave, we've removed the `inverted` property
from `Input`, `Password`, `Textarea`, `Button`, `Select`, `SelectList`, `PhoneInput`, `Datepicker`, `Tooltip`, `Text`, and `Breadcrumbs`.

In case you want a specific component to have the styling of the opposite color scheme you need to wrap it with the `InvertedColorScheme` component.
See more on the [Color scheme management page](?path=/docs/essentials-color-scheme--docs).

Old approach (v1):

```tsx
import { Button } from '@freenow/wave';
const InvertedForm = () => (
    <Box>
        <Button inverted size="small" onClick={onClick}>
            {label}
        </Button>
        <Button inverted size="small" onClick={onClick}>
            {label}
        </Button>
    </Box>
);
```

New approach (v2):

```tsx
import { InvertedColorScheme, Button } from '@freenow/wave';

const InvertedForm = () => (
    <InvertedColorScheme>
        <Button size="small" onClick={onClick}>
            {label}
        </Button>
        <Button size="small" onClick={onClick}>
            {label}
        </Button>
    </InvertedColorScheme>
);
```

Migration can be done via a codemod, but some polishing is required after:

```bash
npx jscodeshift --parser=tsx --extension=js,jsx,ts,tsx -t node_modules/@freenow/wave/lib/cjs/codemods/inverted-to-wrapper.js path/to/src
```

Disclaimer: This codemod wraps every Wave component that is using the `inverted` property with `InvertedColorScheme`, this could lead to a decline in performance in case the
DOM gets too deep. Ideally when you have Wave components using the `inverted` prop with a common parent you wrap the parent instead of each individual component.

### Tooltip's `placement` prop values are renamed

In a previous minor release we swapped our positioning engine from `react-tether` to `react-popper`, this came with changes in the placement options
of the engine, but to not introduce breaking changes we kept supporting the previous `react-tether` options as well. From now on you need to use the new
`react-popper` options. This change only affects the `Tooltip` component `placement` prop.

The mapping from old values to new:

<PlacementMappingsTable />

Automatic migration via codemod:

```bash
npx jscodeshift --parser=tsx --extension=js,jsx,ts,tsx -t node_modules/@freenow/wave/lib/cjs/codemods/tooltip-placement.js path/to/src
```

### All deprecated icons are removed

List of removed icons and their alternatives:

<IconMappingsTable />

Automatic migration is done via codemod:

```bash
npx jscodeshift --parser=tsx --extension=js,jsx,ts,tsx -t node_modules/@freenow/wave/lib/cjs/codemods/deprecated-icons.js path/to/src
```

### Text's `weak` property renamed to `secondary`

The `weak` property was the initial way to indicate secondary information in a `Text` component, it has been deprecated for a while in favour of
the more semantic `secondary` prop.

Codemod:

```bash
npx jscodeshift --parser=tsx --extension=js,jsx,ts,tsx -t node_modules/@freenow/wave/lib/cjs/codemods/weak-to-secondary.js path/to/src
```

### Button's `block` prop is removed

The `block` property used to act as a shortcut to give the button components a width of 100%. In the future, use the `width` property
directly. It uses the styled-system variable, which is a lot more flexible than just the boolean flag.

Codemod for migration:

```bash
npx jscodeshift --parser=tsx --extension=js,jsx,ts,tsx -t node_modules/@freenow/wave/lib/cjs/codemods/block-to-width-100.js path/to/src
```

Commit message:

Synchronises icons with Figma (#407)
---------

Signed-off-by: Nikolai Lopin <nikolai.lopin@mytaxi.com>

docs/migrating.storybook.mdx, after:

import { Meta } from '@storybook/blocks';

import { PlacementMappingsTable } from './components/migration/PlacementMappingsTable';
import { InvertedPropMigrationTable } from './components/migration/InvertedPropMigrationTable';
import { IconMappingsTable } from './components/migration/IconMappingsTable';
import { CssVariablesMigrationTable } from './components/migration/CssVariablesMigrationTable';

<Meta title="Migration to v2" />

# From v1 to v2

Prerequisites:

-   your project must use React@18;
-   React is mounted to the DOM using the [new `createRoot` API](https://react.dev/blog/2022/03/08/react-18-upgrade-guide#updates-to-client-rendering-apis).

## 1️⃣ Connect Classic colors

Version 2 provides two [color themes](?path=/docs/essentials-colors--docs) of the UI.
Start migrating to the classic color theme no matter which primary colors your UI must have.

Connect classic colors by rendering `ClassicColors` component as close as possible to the application's root, where React is mounted to the DOM.
The component injects CSS color variables used in the design system.

```tsx
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom/client';
import App from './App.tsx';
import { ClassicColors } from '@freenow/wave'; // blue primary color

ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root')!).render(
    <React.StrictMode>
        <ClassicColors />
        <App />
    </React.StrictMode>
);
```

## 2️⃣ Run codemods

Codemods automatically modify your code to match the new APIs. They aren't perfect, but they reduce the amount of repetitive work by a lot.

Run all codemods at once against all the files in the `src` folder:

npm

```bash
npx @freenow/wave run_v2_migration src/**/*
```

Yarn

```bash
yarn exec node_modules/.bin/run_v2_migration src/**/*
```

This command also accepts [jscodeshift's CLI options](https://github.com/facebook/jscodeshift?tab=readme-ov-file#usage-cli). If you prefer to run codemods one by one, you'll find individual commands in the [Breaking Changes section](#breaking-changes).

## 3️⃣ Verify it works

Run your application. You should see all the elements displayed and colored the same as in v1.

Run the following command in the devtool's console to verify everything works well:

```js
getComputedStyle(document.documentElement).getPropertyValue('--wave-b-color-black')
    ? console.log('%c🌊 Wave 2.0 is here', 'color: green;font-size: 1.2rem;')
    : console.log('%c🔴 Something is wrong, let us know at #ask-wave', 'color:red;font-size: 1.2rem;');
```

Other ways to verify the migration is done:

-   you will see the `--wave` CSS variables in dev tools;
-   if your OS switches between light and dark schemes, the UI will switch to the dark scheme too (you can enforce it in dev tools);

In case it doesn't work, reach out to the #ask-wave Slack channel for help.

## 4️⃣ Enforce light scheme

Wave v2 comes with automatic dark scheme enabled by default. That means the color of the UI will reflect the OS color preferences of the user.

Most likely, your app will need adjustments to make the dark scheme readable.
Consider adding a task to your backlog, and disable the dark scheme by wrapping your application root with the `LightScheme` until you are ready:

```tsx
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom/client';
import App from './App.tsx';
import { ClassicColors, LightScheme } from '@freenow/wave'; // blue primary color

ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root')!).render(
    <React.StrictMode>
        <ClassicColors />
        <LightScheme>
            <App />
        </LightScheme>
    </React.StrictMode>
);
```

## 5️⃣ Polish the code

Codemods leave several artifacts that require manual processing. Your code will work fine without polishing, but it will be repetitive.

### Migrate to semantic CSS variables

Find all `--wave-b-color` usages. Those are CSS variables pointing to theme colors, like `Color` object we had before.
The better way to work with colors is to use _semantic CSS variables_, they start with `--wave-s-color`.
Consider the role the color fulfils in your use case, and pick the matching variable from several semantic groups:

-   _foreground_ for texts and icons;
-   _background_ for background of elements and surfaces;
-   _border_;
-   _shadow_.

The list of semantic variables is available at [the colors page](?path=/docs/essentials-colors--docs),
but we recommend using a typed `getSemanticValue` helper instead of hard-coding variable names (they are long).

<CssVariablesMigrationTable />

After you are done, replace all mentions of `ReadCssColorVariable | (string & {})` in your code with `ReadCssColorVariable`.

### Set the default page background to Wave's

Wave has several CSS variables for page background color because of the dark/light schemes.
We automatically set the background color to the `body`, but you probably have it set too.
If so, delete your manual page background setting or set it to `getSemanticValue('background-page-default')`.

### Clean `inverted` props migration

If you used `inverted` prop extensively, you will see that each component is now wrapped into `<InvertedColorScheme>` component.
This is not required, you can wrap multiple components at once and avoid duplication (`InvertedColorScheme` is `Box` with a special class name):

<InvertedPropMigrationTable />

### Review `ref` usages

We changed the place where the `ref` is attached to the form components `Input` and `Password`.
If you use `ref` to reach underlying DOM elements, you no longer need to look for `input` element. Use `ref.current` directly.

## 6️⃣ Switch to new colors (if required)

Now you can easily switch to the `ModernColors` theme if your project requires rebranding:

```tsx
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom/client';
import App from './App.tsx';
import { ModernColors } from '@freenow/wave'; // blue primary color

ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root')!).render(
    <React.StrictMode>
        <ModernColors />
        <App />
    </React.StrictMode>
);
```

## Breaking Changes

### `Colors` and `SemanticColors` objects are removed

Version 2 does not export `Colors` and `SemanticColors` anymore. All the colors are now accessible via CSS custom properties (aka CSS variables).

It is recommended to use semantic CSS variables at all time (see the list of variables on the [colors page](?path=/docs/essentials-colors--docs)).
Wave exports a convenient helper with variables autocompletion.

Old approach (v1):

```tsx
import { Colors } from '@freenow/wave';

export const GreyList = styled.ul`
    color: ${Colors.AUTHENTIC_BLUE_550};
`;
```

New approach (v2):

```tsx
import { getSemanticValue } from '@freenow/wave';

export const GreyList = styled.ul`
    color: ${getSemanticValue('foreground-primary')};
`;
```

Codemode migrates the colors automatically:

```bash
npx jscodeshift --parser=tsx --extension=js,jsx,ts,tsx -t node_modules/@freenow/wave/lib/cjs/codemods/colors-to-css-vars.js path/to/src
```

Disclaimer: This codemod transforms usages of `Colors` to our bare colors CSS variables to ensure we don't introduce breaking changes, that being said,
we recommend using semantic tokens instead as a best practice and offer a `getSemanticValue` API for just that.

### `inverted` prop is removed

With the introduction of our new dark scheme in Wave, we've removed the `inverted` property
from `Input`, `Password`, `Textarea`, `Button`, `Select`, `SelectList`, `PhoneInput`, `Datepicker`, `Tooltip`, `Text`, and `Breadcrumbs`.

In case you want a specific component to have the styling of the opposite color scheme you need to wrap it with the `InvertedColorScheme` component.
See more on the [Color scheme management page](?path=/docs/essentials-color-scheme--docs).

Old approach (v1):

```tsx
import { Button } from '@freenow/wave';
const InvertedForm = () => (
    <Box>
        <Button inverted size="small" onClick={onClick}>
            {label}
        </Button>
        <Button inverted size="small" onClick={onClick}>
            {label}
        </Button>
    </Box>
);
```

New approach (v2):

```tsx
import { InvertedColorScheme, Button } from '@freenow/wave';

const InvertedForm = () => (
    <InvertedColorScheme>
        <Button size="small" onClick={onClick}>
            {label}
        </Button>
        <Button size="small" onClick={onClick}>
            {label}
        </Button>
    </InvertedColorScheme>
);
```

Migration can be done via a codemod, but some polishing is required after:

```bash
npx jscodeshift --parser=tsx --extension=js,jsx,ts,tsx -t node_modules/@freenow/wave/lib/cjs/codemods/inverted-to-wrapper.js path/to/src
```

Disclaimer: This codemod wraps every Wave component that is using the `inverted` property with `InvertedColorScheme`, this could lead to a decline in performance in case the
DOM gets too deep. Ideally when you have Wave components using the `inverted` prop with a common parent you wrap the parent instead of each individual component.

### Tooltip's `placement` prop values are renamed

In a previous minor release we swapped our positioning engine from `react-tether` to `react-popper`, this came with changes in the placement options
of the engine, but to not introduce breaking changes we kept supporting the previous `react-tether` options as well. From now on you need to use the new
`react-popper` options. This change only affects the `Tooltip` component `placement` prop.

The mapping from old values to new:

<PlacementMappingsTable />

Automatic migration via codemod:

```bash
npx jscodeshift --parser=tsx --extension=js,jsx,ts,tsx -t node_modules/@freenow/wave/lib/cjs/codemods/tooltip-placement.js path/to/src
```

### Deprecated icons are removed. Names of the rest is synced with Figma

List of removed icons and their alternatives:

<IconMappingsTable />

Automatic migration is done via codemod:

```bash
npx jscodeshift --parser=tsx --extension=js,jsx,ts,tsx -t node_modules/@freenow/wave/lib/cjs/codemods/deprecated-icons.js path/to/src
```

### Text's `weak` property renamed to `secondary`

The `weak` property was the initial way to indicate secondary information in a `Text` component, it has been deprecated for a while in favour of
the more semantic `secondary` prop.

Codemod:

```bash
npx jscodeshift --parser=tsx --extension=js,jsx,ts,tsx -t node_modules/@freenow/wave/lib/cjs/codemods/weak-to-secondary.js path/to/src
```

### Button's `block` prop is removed

The `block` property used to act as a shortcut to give the button components a width of 100%. In the future, use the `width` property
directly. It uses the styled-system variable, which is a lot more flexible than just the boolean flag.

Codemod for migration:

```bash
npx jscodeshift --parser=tsx --extension=js,jsx,ts,tsx -t node_modules/@freenow/wave/lib/cjs/codemods/block-to-width-100.js path/to/src
```
